The collections module is part of the built in Python library, so we will need to import its elements
in order to use it.
As we have learned in the first days of the course.
Python has several built in data structures, including tuples, dictionaries and lists which provide
us with a way to organize and store data.
The collections module is going to help us complete and manipulate data structures in a more efficient
way.
In this lecture, we are going to learn about some of its most important tools which are counter default
dict and named tuples.
Federico is waiting for you and PY Charm to explore all of them right now.
The first element of collections will learn about this counter.
But first, we'll learn a bit more about lists and their normal behavior so that we can later tell what's
new about counter.
Suppose we have a list named numbers which contains numbers that randomly repeat themselves like this.
And suppose that we want to know how many times each number repeats itself.
Well, we could loop through each element and assign them to a dictionary.
At the same time, we can create a key for each new key that appears when looping through the list so
as to store the repeated numbers there.
There is an easier way to do this and we can use the counter object of collections.
So from collections we import counter with capital C since it is an object now we can use it and we
only need to print counter assigning it to numbers, which is the list we have.
If we execute this or receive some kind of dictionary that contains five, which appears five times
four, four times eight twice and six once, and so on.
If you think this is a sort of dictionary, you're right because it is a dictionary subclass.
Not only can we count numbers in a list, but we can also count elements in a string.
So if instead of numbers, we print a string containing repeated letters such as Mississippi and we
execute it, we'll see that I appears four times X appears four times P appears twice and M appears
once.
We can also count the words in a sentence instead of numbers.
Will type sentence equals.
Let me think.
You will never win if you never begin.
And we'll print counter of sentence and applying the split method.
Do you remember it?
It is a string method that separates the elements contained here, so it will do so according to the
blank spaces.
If we execute this, the word you appears twice, never appears twice, and so on.
In other words, you can use counter to count elements.
Let's analyze some counter methods.
For instance, let's assign counter to a variable named series, which is equal to a counter of a list
that contains one several times.
It will also have some twos, threes and a four.
Now we'll print and in order to see series on the screen, which is actually a counter object.
So if we type dot, we'll see all the methods contained in counter.
I advise you to try them on your own.
And let's see, for example, the most common.
If we don't add anything to its attributes and we execute it, it will arrange the elements of our list
in tuples according to the number of times in which those elements appear.
Therefore, one appears six times and three appears six times as well.
We'll add another three so as to analyze it better.
Now three is the most common number appearing seven times, and it's followed by one, two and four.
So we got this result since we didn't put anything in brackets.
So we received all the numbers by default.
If we only want to see the number that appears the most, we should type one and the first most common
number will appear, which is three.
If we type to the software, will show the second most common numbers and so on.
So another thing we can do is to print a list that's created from elements of series.
We'd be casting a counter object to a list.
Now we have the repeated elements of our list.
We can't see how many times they appear, but we can see them arranged in a list.
As always, I advise you to try the counter methods on your own because they have a lot to offer.
So now we're going to learn about a second element of collections, which is default dict, and we'll
learn how to apply it.
So let's look at a normal dictionary first.
We'll create a dictionary named My Dick.
It contains a key name, one whose value is green.
Another key name to whose value is blue.
And finally, a third key named three, whose value is red.
All right.
We have a pretty basic dictionary.
And as you know, if we want to see any of its elements on the screen, we can enter a key here, for
example, to.
We'll see.
That too contains the element blue as value.
However, if we enter a key that doesn't exist, we know what's going to happen.
For instance, if we enter for we'll get an error message that reads key error for because my dictionary
does not contain four as a key.
So this could be a problem if you wanted a for loop to iterate over a list of keys of yours.
There could be keys that aren't contained in your dictionary.
And so it would raise a key error.
And here's where default dict comes in handy.
Let's create a new dictionary.
I will name it my dict again, but it will be equal to default dict which will enclose.
LAMB, BDA, colon, nothing in brackets.
So what is this?
You may ask.
Well, we're telling our dictionary that if there's a key that doesn't exist, it will be assigned nothing
as value.
It could be any word, but we've chosen the word nothing.
So let's add an element to our dictionary, which is empty.
And we'll add the key one that's equal to green.
Now a dictionary has a value.
So let's print my dict and call the wrong key.
That is two, which doesn't exist yet.
If we execute it, the software will return nothing.
In fact, besides one equals green, our dictionary now contains two equals nothing.
And let me demonstrate something else.
If we directly print my dict, will notice that default dict has the following values.
One is equal to green, and two is equal to nothing.
This means that our dictionary has returned a value based on an error because the given key didn't exist.
So default dict has this and much more to offer.
So it's up to you to try its attributes and methods so as to make the most of them in your programs.
If you have doubts, go to our Q&A section.
So lastly, we're going to analyze a third element of collections, which is named tuple.
So let's create a basic tuple named my tuple, which will contain three values, say 518 and 65.
If we print my tuple with index one, you may already know that will receive number 18, which is the
value of index one.
But you might have a long tuple and you might not remember where to find a specific value or its index.
So you could have to start counting.
So what if you had tuples which could be accessed by their indexes and names?
That's exactly what we'll do with named tuple.
So first, let's create an object named person.
That will be equal to names tuple which will have the following values person as a string and a list
of attributes such as name, height and weight.
So here we have three arguments for a name tuple which was assigned to a person object.
So now we'll create a person instance and we'll name it Michael and it'll be equal to a person.
And if we put if we add brackets, we can see what this person needs, such as a name, a height and
a weight.
His name will be Michael.
He'll be 176 centimetres tall and weigh 79 kilos.
Our character, Michael has those three attributes, and if we want to access them, we can do it like
this.
Print is called Michael Height, for instance, and if we print this value, which is 176 and is contained
in the tuple I've created in order to assign attributes to Michael, we'll be able to access through
the name of his attribute.
That's because my tuple contains elements that were assigned with named tuple.
So if we enter another attribute such as weight, we'll also be able to do it.
And that's not everything.
What's cool about this is that we can also access an element by its index, which would be the normal
way to do so.
So if we enter index to here, we'll get Michael's weight.
Given the fact that this is the value of index two.
So these were three elements of collections that I wanted to show.
You read the document so as to get to know other valuable features of collections.
At the end of this lesson, you'll find three exercises to solve.
Two of them, you'll have to take into account some objects we've seen.
But in order to solve the third exercise, you'll have to read the documents in order to learn about
an element that we haven't dealt with.
Great challenge, isn't it?
Well, I'll see you in the next lecture.